Thank you very much. Today we continue to follow the teaching of the great teacher, Bodhisattva Kya
Kya Mani.
This teaching is teaching on the morality, particularly on the morality, but also is mind, of
course, concentration of the samadhi as well as the residence of the extraordinary training
practices, explaining.
Why? It's called external ordinary practices. Generally there are many reasons, but one thing is in
the Buddha's teaching, the Buddha's teaching is middle-way.
Middle-way is not extreme on any side. So it is just the way that it is, the nature of it is.
So therefore, this teaching, the morality, is also teaching on that. Exactly, in the middle-way, it
is not such a set of practices.
Neither is nor, kind of like very luxurious or kind of like falling in the car, nor in the luxuries
or the laboratory status.
It's just middle-way. Therefore, it's also known as extraordinary teaching of the three different
training practices.
And then concentration is also the same thing when we do concentration. It's not so forceful, nor
so also loose. It's middle-way.
And the verse level is also not something any kind of exaggerating or kind of high-stating or low-
stating. Exactly the way things are, discovery.
That's why it's called external ordinary training practices.
And it's also training with me that it trains our mind. It brings our mind more gentle and peaceful
, more calm and soothing,
and more, kind of like, more with the common senses, more stable, down to the earth.
That's what is known as extraordinary teaching. It's not anything else.
Besides those, just a basic simple nature with discovery, that's what the real nature is, and that
is the practice itself.
And now, in order to again begin the practices, always in the teaching set, we reactivate our
beautiful motivations.
So in application, bodhicitta, and five perfect states.
Five perfect states are perfect teachers at the Buddha Chakra Money, perfect gratefulness to all
the Sangha members of the Arathas,
and teaching and so forth, time and places, and all that.
So with those, Eddie told, we follow the teachings.
Now, we are talking today, I think we are, yesterday we discussed about those five certainties,
and as well as five, four obstacles, obstacles.
And today we go to the, I think, basically to the, now, so all, everything is prepared.
Everything is ready, this five certainty, I mean, it's in the teaching setting, five certainty,
but maybe in a more kind of initiative, language is suitable, five issues, the person that we have,
five issues.
That we like to keep, because this practice is known as practice, trying to make ourselves good.
Good, and also good for everyone, and bring harmony and peace.
If somehow we have those issues, then it won't really, we won't settle ourselves.
Settling is so important, settling the spiritual attack.
According to the teaching, we've been wandering in the samsara from the beginning times.
We don't have any kind of destination or goal, we wandered all the time.
We are roaming, roaming all the time.
And now we're going to settle, spiritually settle.
We're not going to looking and searching and doing this and that, and too many thinking ideas and
this and that, because settle.
And we have these five issues, we're not settled.
We're not settling, we're making our own ego-clinging choices, personal decisions.
You're not completely 100% dedicated to improve with Buddha talk.
So therefore, then we won't dribble up what we'd like to be achieved, or what at least teaching
says.
We won't dribble up that, we won't act like that, realization, understanding, because our ground is
shaking.
Oh, I like, I'm going to do only this time, or that time, or this situation, that situation.
We're making all different kind of like, what's called it?
Biorities, kind of highlighting our own ego-clinging, habit patterns. Biorities.
We've been doing that for a long time.
According to the various teachers, from the biggest times, we've been always educated by the force
of our ego-clinging, self-important, and aware we like to do things.
But that, according to the teaching, we didn't fulfill anything. Still we were wondering,
struggling in the samsara.
Nothing really improved, actually, reality. Whatever we do, it is always getting, and headaches.
There's always headaches, one after another, uncomfortable, feeling and disappointment, one after
another.
This time, we like to change, we like to make the difference, difference.
And kind of bring our habit patterns of the past, this and that thing.
Oh, I like to do that, I want this and that, and this and that, all things, we have to put on the
side or let it go, let it go.
And then also many times, we have kind of issues of our kind of, what's it called?
When we are young times, young times, issues of what experience, this and that things, and bring in
the spiritual, in the community, in the spiritual stages, and make that issues, what that does?
It really spoils our own practice, and someday it's a failure to the community, to community, and
spoiling that.
And that is not the correct way to go. We like to improve.
We like to, don't like to be struggling, what we habit patently, we are going there.
We like to change.
And that's everybody, that's the one reason there is so many, for example, in a modern time,
ancient time, such as old, there is assistance and support,
therapies, psychiatry, doctors, so forth, and also, we like to improve our issues, we have to
follow those instructions.
Whatever they say, those expertize.
It's the same way, we like to improve the change and habit dependence.
Improve ourself, from the grass root, not gross, conveyable, and hovering as this and that things.
Now, come down to the ground, that's what we are.
And from that, we build up.
Let's change from that.
That is what then is it, five points, five issues, that free from the five issues.
So that means we are totally dedicated, motivated.
It's not just making blockage, these and that things.
It's like that, we are free from five issues, or five points.
So now we are leading.
And also, we don't have the poor obstacles.
These poor obstacles are generally, according to teaching said, is changeable.
At that time is necessary, during the Buddha's time, is necessary.
Because everybody is making such big stories of that.
But things change, then it becomes more simple, more common, more natural.
That we experience also in our own lifetimes.
When we are young, or even 20 years ago, there are big issues, but different things, this and that.
Now, it becomes more simplified, more natural, more common.
This is nothing, the issue is just the same.
Because this teaching is the teaching to help others, to ourselves and help others.
So if they make highlighted issues, that block in the helping, observing the teaching,
that's why the greatest teacher, Buddha pointed out those poor obstacles, poor obstacles.
Obstacles, so free from poor obstacles.
Now, we take the ordinations.
Ordinations is, when you take the ordinations, then there are ceremonies, of course.
There are ceremonies of the ruffled ceremony.
There are ceremonies of the Norse monks.
There are ceremonies of the Apasakas.
There are ceremonies of the Gelumas, those Geluma or the Bidwan.
And there are ceremonies of the Orand monks or the nuns, fully or the nuns.
So you go one after another.
Follow the systems.
In order to do this, again, in here, the teacher says, you contract with qualified teachers.
You qualify the teachers.
Now you are ready to, in your side, qualify the two.
That means we are free from the five points and poor obstacles.
You are perfectly, fully prepared and fully equipped or fully qualified.
Qualified teaching, qualified student or qualified receivers.
When you receive, this is what in the teaching always, qualified teacher, qualified student or the
followers.
And we like to get that realization, have to be perfectly in kind of foundation of circumstances,
perfectly.
As should be.
And that means the qualified student, qualified teacher.
And we have these four, five points, the pre and four issues.
Pre, then you are qualified.
At that same time, that means also your mind is clear, your mind is pure,
and you also, you know what you're doing.
It's not somebody's towards you and put it in a block, block gate.
It's all your choice.
Generally, the Buddha teaching is your choice.
Absolutely your own choice.
Nobody forcing, nobody pushing, nobody really kind of ready to do that.
But it's your choice.
So you know all things, whatever is going to happen.
What do you think?
You're inspired, and you feel good, and now you like to take that.
Now you have to enter the path with all that.
And that is from your side, or from our side, that will be followed.
So we are ready.
We know, we do things more clearly.
And those are also issues, for example, those what in the Buddha teaching said, seven years.
It's not just a physical.
Also it's mental stabilization too.
Young as seven years.
So that means not just a physical in their world,
but mentally they also can be understanding, they can act, they can keep up that.
That.
So mentally and physically you are very qualified now.
That you know that.
And then according also, for example, seven years, the shamanara, or the nuns or monks,
and that they have to be at least that in 20 years.
That is like fully ordained.
This is also very, I think it's kind of, you know, I never thought that before,
but it's same as in this country.
Also they said when you are 21 years old, you are free from the like, in a way,
you are all independent and dependent.
So you don't have to be, you are free in a way.
And so you can do.
So that means you are 20 years old now.
You are fully, fully ready.
Ready to resume your own decision, your own choice.
So 20 years when you get that, you take the ordination.
So all that aspect is completely kind of ready from the receiver side
or one who are going to receive the ordination.
And from the teacher side, and the qualified teacher in the teaching said,
and qualified teacher in the Buddha teaching,
then in generally there's a lot of qualifications
explained in the Buddha's teaching, Vinaya teaching, Sothra teaching,
and as well as in Vedaya in the teaching.
There's, I mean, you all know that.
You all know that.
But I will write that in the Vinaya teaching.
What did he say? Said, said, and that is.
And, and I'll just write in a, into bed.